Before we can begin building Internet solution,
it's important to understand the context in which you'll be building them.
So, in our case, we'll need to understand the blockchain architecture.
So, blockchain solutions interface with the world wide web.
Not only that, but they're actually changing the very nature of the web itself.
In this section, we'll discuss Web 1.0, 2.0 and 3.0.
Meaning the past, present, and future of the internet.
So with that, let's get started.
Now, the birth of the internet can be deemed as Web 1.0.
It allows users a one-way system to request data in a read-only format from the server.
In this world, users passively consulted
Web pages and for the most part didn't really participate in generating any content.
Then came Web 2.0,
which allowed users to communicate with each other,
send messages, pictures, videos,
and the web grew to handle the social interactions.
Users became the creators of content and along with that,
came the growth of internet services that we all know and love such as,
Google, Amazon, Facebook, Uber, and even Airbnb.
Now this meant that while Web 2.0 created many new opportunities for users,
the value still goes to decentralized entities.
The economy of wealth and data ownership are
still dominated by these privately owned middlemen.
For example, there now exist platforms
that opened the access for musicians to publicize their music.
But musicians don't get the full share of these profits.
A large cuts now goes back to these app services.
The publishers, the labels and collecting services.
So, this brings up some of the issues with Web 2.0.
Now, one of them is that outside these web service giants,
the internet today does not hold state.
Now, here's what I mean by that.
In our current paradigm,
if you were to query a device that's connected to the internet
and asking about its history or its current state,
it has no idea what you're talking about.
Now, two solutions came about to address this; First,
Cookies, which were invented for web apps to preserve state on the local devices.
Now, the problem of cookies however,
is that they were created and controlled by service providers, not the user.
The user does not have any control over
which provider is giving them state or has access to their state.
Secondly, centralized entities such as Google and
Facebook hold the state and thus hold the value that's created from them.
Let's refer back to our musician friend earlier.
So, there's no easy way for her to sell her music directly to our fans,
without going through a traditional middlemen,
like labels or publishers.
Now, there's nothing wrong with this current paradigm,
but there's definitely room for improvement.
So, how is Web 3.0 looking to solve this?
Well, with introduction of the blockchain,
we now have a way for participants to hold and transfer state
in a digitally native way as well as transfer the value it holds.
So this is really powerful because it allows
any participant not only to be able to be the creator of the content,
but also benefit from its value.
Imagine instead, a world where artists can sell their music
directly to fans using cryptocurrency and then they
can use smart contracts to instantly split and pay at the royal
sees with no need for traditional middlemen like those labels,
publishers or collecting societies.
So, that's exactly what companies like UJO music are doing.
It's important to note that we're still at
the very early stages of seeing Web three unfold.
There's still a lot of infrastructure and adoption that needs to happen,
but the changes are taking place.
Many early companies have risen up to meet the needs that we've discussed.
For example, there is Steam It,
which is a blogging and social networking website.
They uses steam blockchain to reward publishers and curators.
There's also the Brave Web Browser that strips out ads from websites and
replaces them with their own ads and then
allows users to send money to the sites that they like.
Check out these new players shaking up each of these spheres from the operating systems,
to messaging, to even how we work in remote jobs.
In the next section,
we'll take a look at the architecture of Web
3.0 and see how it's propelling these changes.
To recap in this section,
we covered the past present and future of the internet by comparing
the changes from Web one, two to 3.0.